Enhancements to Storage and Filesystems documentation (#6756)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/concepts/filesystems.md

    - RemoteFileSystem
---

# Filesystems

> A filesystem block is an object which allows you to read and write data from paths. Prefect provides multiple built-in file system types that cover a wide range of use cases. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A filesystem block is an object that allows you to read and write data from paths. Prefect provides multiple built-in file system types that cover a wide range of use cases. 
```

minio_block.save("minio")
```

## Azure

> The `Azure` file system block enables interaction with Azure Datalake and Azure Blob Storage. Under the hood, `Azure` uses [`adlfs`](https://github.com/fsspec/adlfs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Azure` file system block enables interaction with Azure Datalake and Azure Blob Storage. Under the hood, the `Azure` block uses [`adlfs`](https://github.com/fsspec/adlfs).
```

`Azure` properties include:

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| basepath | String path to the location of files on the remote filesystem. Access to files outside of the base path will not be allowed. |
| azure_storage_connection_string | Azure storage connection string. |
| azure_storage_account_name | Azure storage account name. |
| azure_storage_account_key | Azure storage account key. |

To create a block:

```python
from prefect.filesystems import Azure

block = Azure(basepath="my-bucket/folder/")
block.save("dev")
```

To use it in a deployment:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
prefect deployment build path/to/flow.py:flow_name --name deployment_name --tag dev -sb az/dev
```
</div>

You need to install `adlfs` to use it.

## GitHub

> The `GitHub` filesystem block enables interaction with GitHub repositories. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `GitHub` filesystem block enables interaction with GitHub repositories. This block is currently read-only and limited to public repositories.
```

Reviewer: I know there's an open issue for private repos and a hack, so might want to exclude the public repo section I added.

```

To use it in a deployment:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
prefect deployment build path/to/flow.py:flow_name --name deployment_name --tag dev -sb gcs/dev
```
</div>

You need to install `gcsfs`to use it.

## S3

The `S3` file system block enables interaction with Amazon S3. Under the hood, `S3` uses [`s3fs`](https://s3fs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

`S3` properties include:

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| basepath | String path to the location of files on the remote filesystem. Access to files outside of the base path will not be allowed. |
| aws_access_key_id | AWS Access Key ID |
| aws_secret_access_key | AWS Secret Access Key |

To create a block:

```python
from prefect.filesystems import S3

block = S3(basepath="my-bucket/folder/")
block.save("dev")
```

To use it in a deployment:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
prefect deployment build path/to/flow.py:flow_name --name deployment_name --tag dev -sb s3/dev
```
</div>

> You need to install `s3fs`to use it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to install `s3fs` to use it.
```

> You need to install `s3fs`to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to install `s3fs`to use this block.
```

If you leverage `S3`, `GCS`, or `Azure` storage blocks, and you don't explicitly configure credentials on the respective storage block, those credentials will be inferred from the environment. Make sure to set those either explicitly on the block or as environment variables, configuration files, or IAM roles within both the build and runtime environment for your deployments.

## Filesystem package dependencies

A Prefect installation and doesn't include filesystem-specific package dependencies such as `s3fs`, `gcsfs` or `adlfs`. This includes Prefect base Docker images.

You must ensure that filesystem-specific libraries are installed in an execution environment where they will be used by flow runs.

In Dockerized deployments, you can leverage the `EXTRA_PIP_PACKAGES` environment variable. Those dependencies will be installed at runtime within your Docker container or Kubernetes Job before the flow starts running. 

> Here is an example showing how you can specify that in your deployment YAML manifest, in this case `s3fs`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example from a deployment YAML file showing how to specify the installation of `s3fs` from into your image:
```
